README.md, before:

<h1 align="center">
  <a href="https://dtcooper.github.io/tomato/">
    <img src="https://raw.github.com/dtcooper/tomato/main/docs/assets/tomato.png" width="100"><br>
    Tomato Radio Automation
  </a>
</h1>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://dtcooper.github.io/tomato/">Documentation</a> |
  <a href="https://dtcooper.github.io/tomato/client/">Desktop App</a> |
  <a href="https://dtcooper.github.io/tomato/server/">Server</a> |
  <a href="https://github.com/dtcooper/tomato/blob/main/controller/">Controller</a>
</p>

Client and server for Tomato Radio Automation software. Tomato is easy to use,
and hard to screw up playout software written for the specific use case of
[Burning Man Information Radio](https://bmir.org).

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://raw.github.com/dtcooper/tomato/main/docs/assets/client/screenshot.png" width="850">
</div>

The backend server is written in [Python](https://www.python.org/)'s
[Django web framework](https://www.djangoproject.com/), heavily leveraging its
[automatic admin interface](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.1/ref/contrib/admin/).

The desktop app is a native, cross-platform [Svelte](https://svelte.dev/) +
[Electron](https://www.electronjs.org/) app. It communicates with the backend
via a websocket and supports intermittent connectivity loss.

## Running the Code

### Server

Detailed instructions on how to install the server in both development and
production environments
[can be found here in the docs](https://dtcooper.github.io/tomato/server/installation/).

### Client (Desktop App)

Download a
[development preview build here](https://github.com/dtcooper/tomato/releases/tag/preview-build)
or run the client's code locally
[following the instruction here](https://dtcooper.github.io/tomato/client/#run-development-code)

### Documentation

To run the documentation locally, install [Python 3.9](https://www.python.org/)
or higher. Then in your terminal,

```bash
# Install Poetry (for Python dependencies) if you don't already have it.
curl -sSL https://install.python-poetry.org | python3 -

# Clone the repo
git clone https://github.com/dtcooper/tomato.git

# Enter the docs code
cd tomato/docs

# Install dependencies and run
poetry install
poetry run mkdocs serve
```

Head over to <http://localhost:8888/> in your web browser.

## Stack

* Client &mdash; JavaScript ([Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/))
  * [Electron](https://electronjs.org/), [Svelte](https://svelte.dev/),
    [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/), [daisyUI](https://daisyui.com/),
    and [esbuild](https://esbuild.github.io/).
* Server &mdash; [Python](https://www.python.org/)
  * Libraries: [Django](https://www.djangoproject.com/), [huey](https://huey.readthedocs.io/en/latest/),
    [Constance](https://django-constance.readthedocs.io/en/latest/), and [Starlette](https://www.starlette.io/)
  * Tools, Databases, and Containers: [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/),
    [docker-nginx-certbot](https://github.com/JonasAlfredsson/docker-nginx-certbot),
    and [Dozzle](https://dozzle.dev/).
* Button Box (Controller) &mdash;
  [Raspberry Pi Pico](https://www.raspberrypi.com/documentation/microcontrollers/raspberry-pi-pico.html)
  (or similar) and [CircuitPython](https://circuitpython.org/)
  * See [`controller/README.md`](controller/README.md) for firmware/setup instructions
* Documentation
  * [MkDocs](https://www.mkdocs.org/) and [Material for MkDocs](https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/)

## Acknowledgements

Tomato's UX and UI was designed in part by
[Miranda Kay](mailto:miranda.e.kay@gmail.com). Testing and feedback was provided
by the entire [Burning Man Information Radio (BMIR)](https://bmir.org) team.

## TODO List

### Version 1

- [x] [Supress power save mode](https://www.electronjs.org/docs/latest/api/power-save-blocker)
- [x] Trim silence on uploaded assets
- [x] Reject files based on pre-processed file hash
- [x] CSV export to client log entries
- [x] Idiot mode, easy mode, advanced mode
- [ ] ~~Timeout on fetch?~~ (websockets makes this unneeded, except for downloading files)
- [x] Attempt to prevent duplicate assets from playing within a certain time period
- [x] Start/end time for assets in client are based on "is likely to play at" time
- [x] Empty rotators are warned on (based on feature flag)
- [x] Deal with non-playable assets (error state ones)
- [x] Compression and selecting output device using a bridge to
      [the web audio API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/AudioContext/createMediaElementSource).
- [x] Any custom django admin pages can [follow this guide](https://dev.to/daiquiri_team/creating-a-custom-page-in-django-admin-4pbd)
- [x] Flash **whole** screen after configurable time with some messaging ("play the promos, station management has been notified")
- [x] Button to get out of fullscreen (useful on Linux)

### Future Versions

Changes for 2024 based on real world usage in 2023 and feedback
- [x] Make rotators able to disabled (UI for assets / stopsets needs to show that too)
- [x] ~~Implement soft delete for assets~~ -- keep the file, but delete the DB entity
  - [x] Behind the scenes track deleted files.
- [x] Easier way to toggle, simple / standard / advanced view settings in client. Not in settings.
  - [ ] Change advanced mode copy to "admin" mode
  - [x] Build out "switch back to simple mode" timer feature a little better, ie ~~comma separated times?~~
- [x] Better datetime picker in admin
- [x] Skip track in stopset when we get to it
- [ ] ~~Mark a bad asset? Interesting. Not sure how it would work.~~ – too difficult
      to implement, too many opinions, person wishing to flag talks to manager-of-the-moment
- [x] Refresh playlist from backend. ~~Connected client status from backend? Communicate what's in the playlist?~~
  - [x] Minimally completed via `RELOAD_PLAYLIST_AFTER_DATA_CHANGES` setting
- [ ] ~~Status updates, ie news and traffic? Fullscreen thing?~~ / ~~Custom UI labels unused labels that play every N times (ie for telling the DJ to do something)~~ -- Probably not
- [x] Round-robin (or "cycle evenly") rotator scheduling, ignoring weight as an option for a rotator
- [x] Check / validate randomization algorithm
  - [x] Validated! Review of algorithm provided by [Andy](https://github.com/sagittandy/)
- [x] Mini-player column in asset list view
- [x] Asset alternates (single asset has 4-5 underlying audio files that are cycled through)
  - [x] Backend done
- [ ] A large clock in the UI
- [ ] Make weights for previous 24 hours... AND reflect that in front-end (day-of
      pill) and back-end (sortable)... will require change to `END_DATE_PRIORITY_WEIGHT_MULTIPLIER`
    - [x] Added day-of-event pill
- [x] Rudimentary stopset editor, in the form of "skip/queue", regenerate asset, and swap asset
  - [ ] Ability to "audition" assets on a second audio output?
- [x] ~~Stop playing at end of current asset. (Stop playing in 3s with fadeout as well?)~~ (Covered by skip)


Other things
- [ ] Ability to do speech synthesis / pull asset from API? / weather
  - [ ] Best cross-platform way to do this might be to use [text2wav.node.js](https://github.com/abbr/text2wav.node.js)
        to generate WAV files with a timeout
- [ ] KLOS color scheme: `#D91E75`, `#4B89BF`, `#8CBF3F`, `#F2D750`, and `#D95525`
- [ ] "Island Mode" with an embedded [standalone Python distribution](https://python-build-standalone.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
- [ ] Login interstitial to populate with demo data
- [ ] Integrated Twilio call board
- [ ] Single app client lock (ie only ONE client per username/password)'
- [ ] Way to parse filename into rotator, start/end date
  - [ ] Submit form built into Tomato?
- [ ] Silence detection REJECTs audio assets in backend (if there's more than 2 seconds?) (behind FEATURE flag)
- [x] Export all audio assets as zip
  - [x] Import as well (have to be careful with different `protocol.json:protocol_version`)
- [ ] Add configurable silence between ads. Crossfade, with fade points? Fancy!
- [ ] Client "Demo mode", requiring no backend with demo assets.
- [x] Button to play an asset from a specific rotator
  - [x] Backend done as `SINGLE_PLAY_ROTATORS`
- [ ] Cursor can be a fun thing?
- [ ] Clickable playbar that seeks?

## License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
&mdash; see the [LICENSE](https://github.com/dtcooper/tomato/blob/main/LICENSE)
file for details.

Commit message:

Notify user if playlist is refreshed from backend

README.md, after:

<h1 align="center">
  <a href="https://dtcooper.github.io/tomato/">
    <img src="https://raw.github.com/dtcooper/tomato/main/docs/assets/tomato.png" width="100"><br>
    Tomato Radio Automation
  </a>
</h1>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://dtcooper.github.io/tomato/">Documentation</a> |
  <a href="https://dtcooper.github.io/tomato/client/">Desktop App</a> |
  <a href="https://dtcooper.github.io/tomato/server/">Server</a> |
  <a href="https://github.com/dtcooper/tomato/blob/main/controller/">Controller</a>
</p>

Client and server for Tomato Radio Automation software. Tomato is easy to use,
and hard to screw up playout software written for the specific use case of
[Burning Man Information Radio](https://bmir.org).

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://raw.github.com/dtcooper/tomato/main/docs/assets/client/screenshot.png" width="850">
</div>

The backend server is written in [Python](https://www.python.org/)'s
[Django web framework](https://www.djangoproject.com/), heavily leveraging its
[automatic admin interface](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.1/ref/contrib/admin/).

The desktop app is a native, cross-platform [Svelte](https://svelte.dev/) +
[Electron](https://www.electronjs.org/) app. It communicates with the backend
via a websocket and supports intermittent connectivity loss.

## Running the Code

### Server

Detailed instructions on how to install the server in both development and
production environments
[can be found here in the docs](https://dtcooper.github.io/tomato/server/installation/).

### Client (Desktop App)

Download a
[development preview build here](https://github.com/dtcooper/tomato/releases/tag/preview-build)
or run the client's code locally
[following the instruction here](https://dtcooper.github.io/tomato/client/#run-development-code)

### Documentation

To run the documentation locally, install [Python 3.9](https://www.python.org/)
or higher. Then in your terminal,

```bash
# Install Poetry (for Python dependencies) if you don't already have it.
curl -sSL https://install.python-poetry.org | python3 -

# Clone the repo
git clone https://github.com/dtcooper/tomato.git

# Enter the docs code
cd tomato/docs

# Install dependencies and run
poetry install
poetry run mkdocs serve
```

Head over to <http://localhost:8888/> in your web browser.

## Stack

* Client &mdash; JavaScript ([Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/))
  * [Electron](https://electronjs.org/), [Svelte](https://svelte.dev/),
    [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/), [daisyUI](https://daisyui.com/),
    and [esbuild](https://esbuild.github.io/).
* Server &mdash; [Python](https://www.python.org/)
  * Libraries: [Django](https://www.djangoproject.com/), [huey](https://huey.readthedocs.io/en/latest/),
    [Constance](https://django-constance.readthedocs.io/en/latest/), and [Starlette](https://www.starlette.io/)
  * Tools, Databases, and Containers: [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/),
    [docker-nginx-certbot](https://github.com/JonasAlfredsson/docker-nginx-certbot),
    and [Dozzle](https://dozzle.dev/).
* Button Box (Controller) &mdash;
  [Raspberry Pi Pico](https://www.raspberrypi.com/documentation/microcontrollers/raspberry-pi-pico.html)
  (or similar) and [CircuitPython](https://circuitpython.org/)
  * See [`controller/README.md`](controller/README.md) for firmware/setup instructions
* Documentation
  * [MkDocs](https://www.mkdocs.org/) and [Material for MkDocs](https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/)

## Acknowledgements

Tomato's UX and UI was designed in part by
[Miranda Kay](mailto:miranda.e.kay@gmail.com). Testing and feedback was provided
by the entire [Burning Man Information Radio (BMIR)](https://bmir.org) team.

## TODO List

### Version 1

- [x] [Supress power save mode](https://www.electronjs.org/docs/latest/api/power-save-blocker)
- [x] Trim silence on uploaded assets
- [x] Reject files based on pre-processed file hash
- [x] CSV export to client log entries
- [x] Idiot mode, easy mode, advanced mode
- [ ] ~~Timeout on fetch?~~ (websockets makes this unneeded, except for downloading files)
- [x] Attempt to prevent duplicate assets from playing within a certain time period
- [x] Start/end time for assets in client are based on "is likely to play at" time
- [x] Empty rotators are warned on (based on feature flag)
- [x] Deal with non-playable assets (error state ones)
- [x] Compression and selecting output device using a bridge to
      [the web audio API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/AudioContext/createMediaElementSource).
- [x] Any custom django admin pages can [follow this guide](https://dev.to/daiquiri_team/creating-a-custom-page-in-django-admin-4pbd)
- [x] Flash **whole** screen after configurable time with some messaging ("play the promos, station management has been notified")
- [x] Button to get out of fullscreen (useful on Linux)

### Future Versions

Changes for 2024 based on real world usage in 2023 and feedback
- [x] Make rotators able to disabled (UI for assets / stopsets needs to show that too)
- [x] ~~Implement soft delete for assets~~ -- keep the file, but delete the DB entity
  - [x] Behind the scenes track deleted files.
- [x] Easier way to toggle, simple / standard / advanced view settings in client. Not in settings.
  - [ ] Change advanced mode copy to "admin" mode
  - [x] Build out "switch back to simple mode" timer feature a little better, ie ~~comma separated times?~~
- [x] Better datetime picker in admin
- [x] Skip track in stopset when we get to it
- [ ] ~~Mark a bad asset? Interesting. Not sure how it would work.~~ – too difficult
      to implement, too many opinions, person wishing to flag talks to manager-of-the-moment
- [x] Refresh playlist from backend. ~~Connected client status from backend? Communicate what's in the playlist?~~
  - [x] Minimally completed via `RELOAD_PLAYLIST_AFTER_DATA_CHANGES` setting
- [ ] ~~Status updates, ie news and traffic? Fullscreen thing?~~ / ~~Custom UI labels unused labels that play every N times (ie for telling the DJ to do something)~~ -- Probably not
- [x] Round-robin (or "cycle evenly") rotator scheduling, ignoring weight as an option for a rotator
- [x] Check / validate randomization algorithm
  - [x] Validated! Review of algorithm provided by [Andy](https://github.com/sagittandy/)
- [x] Mini-player column in asset list view
- [x] Asset alternates (single asset has 4-5 underlying audio files that are cycled through)
  - [x] Backend done
- [ ] A large clock in the UI
- [ ] Make weights for previous 24 hours... AND reflect that in front-end (day-of
      pill) and back-end (sortable)... will require change to `END_DATE_PRIORITY_WEIGHT_MULTIPLIER`
    - [x] Added day-of-event pill
- [x] Rudimentary stopset editor, in the form of "skip/queue", regenerate asset, and swap asset
  - [ ] Ability to "audition" assets on a second audio output?
- [x] ~~Stop playing at end of current asset. (Stop playing in 3s with fadeout as well?)~~ (Covered by skip)
- [ ] A way to send a custom text notification to all connected clients from backend UI


Other things
- [ ] Ability to do speech synthesis / pull asset from API? / weather
  - [ ] Best cross-platform way to do this might be to use [text2wav.node.js](https://github.com/abbr/text2wav.node.js)
        to generate WAV files with a timeout
- [ ] KLOS color scheme: `#D91E75`, `#4B89BF`, `#8CBF3F`, `#F2D750`, and `#D95525`
- [ ] "Island Mode" with an embedded [standalone Python distribution](https://python-build-standalone.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
- [ ] Login interstitial to populate with demo data
- [ ] Integrated Twilio call board
- [ ] Single app client lock (ie only ONE client per username/password)'
- [ ] Way to parse filename into rotator, start/end date
  - [ ] Submit form built into Tomato?
- [ ] Silence detection REJECTs audio assets in backend (if there's more than 2 seconds?) (behind FEATURE flag)
- [x] Export all audio assets as zip
  - [x] Import as well (have to be careful with different `protocol.json:protocol_version`)
- [ ] Add configurable silence between ads. Crossfade, with fade points? Fancy!
- [ ] Client "Demo mode", requiring no backend with demo assets.
- [x] Button to play an asset from a specific rotator
  - [x] Backend done as `SINGLE_PLAY_ROTATORS`
- [ ] Cursor can be a fun thing?
- [ ] Clickable playbar that seeks?

## License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
&mdash; see the [LICENSE](https://github.com/dtcooper/tomato/blob/main/LICENSE)
file for details.
