TODO.md, before:

TODO List

## Version 1

- [x] [Supress power save mode](https://www.electronjs.org/docs/latest/api/power-save-blocker)
- [x] Trim silence on uploaded assets
- [x] Reject files based on pre-processed file hash
- [x] CSV export to client log entries
- [x] Idiot mode, easy mode, advanced mode
- [ ] ~~Timeout on fetch?~~ (websockets makes this unneeded, except for downloading files)
- [x] Attempt to prevent duplicate assets from playing within a certain time period
- [x] Start/end time for assets in client are based on "is likely to play at" time
- [x] Empty rotators are warned on (based on feature flag)
- [x] Deal with non-playable assets (error state ones)
- [x] Compression and selecting output device using a bridge to
      [the web audio API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/AudioContext/createMediaElementSource).
- [x] Any custom django admin pages can [follow this guide](https://dev.to/daiquiri_team/creating-a-custom-page-in-django-admin-4pbd)
- [x] Flash **whole** screen after configurable time with some messaging ("play the promos, station management has been notified")
- [x] Button to get out of fullscreen (useful on Linux)

## Future Versions

Changes for 2024 based on real world usage in 2023 and feedback
- [x] Make rotators able to disabled (UI for assets / stopsets needs to show that too)
- [x] ~~Implement soft delete for assets~~ -- keep the file, but delete the DB entity
  - [x] Behind the scenes track deleted files.
- [x] Easier way to toggle, simple / standard / advanced view settings in client. Not in settings.
  - [ ] Change advanced mode copy to "admin" mode
  - [x] Build out "switch back to simple mode" timer feature a little better, ie ~~comma separated times?~~
- [x] Better datetime picker in admin
- [x] Skip track in stopset when we get to it
- [ ] ~~Mark a bad asset? Interesting. Not sure how it would work.~~ – too difficult
      to implement, too many opinions, person wishing to flag talks to manager-of-the-moment
- [x] Refresh playlist from backend. ~~Connected client status from backend? Communicate what's in the playlist?~~
  - [x] Minimally completed via `RELOAD_PLAYLIST_AFTER_DATA_CHANGES` setting
- [x] Backend client playlist editor
- [ ] ~~Status updates, ie news and traffic? Fullscreen thing?~~ / ~~Custom UI labels unused labels that play every N times (ie for telling the DJ to do something)~~ -- Probably not
- [x] Round-robin (or "cycle evenly") rotator scheduling, ignoring weight as an option for a rotator
- [x] Check / validate randomization algorithm
  - [x] Validated! Review of algorithm provided by [Andy](https://github.com/sagittandy/)
- [x] Mini-player column in asset list view
- [x] Asset alternates (single asset has 4-5 underlying audio files that are cycled through)
  - [x] Backend done
- [x] A large clock in the UI
- [x] Make weights for previous 24 hours... AND reflect that in front-end (day-of
      pill) and back-end (sortable)... will require change to `END_DATE_PRIORITY_WEIGHT_MULTIPLIER`
    - [x] Added day-of-event pill
- [x] Rudimentary stopset editor, in the form of "skip/queue", regenerate asset, and swap asset
  - [ ] Ability to "audition" assets on a second audio output?
- [x] ~~Stop playing at end of current asset. (Stop playing in 3s with fadeout as well?)~~ (Covered by skip)
- [x] A way to send a custom text notification to all connected clients from backend UI
- [x] Audio visualization with WaveSurfer


## Other things

- [ ] Ability to do speech synthesis / pull asset from API? / weather
  - [ ] Best cross-platform way to do this might be to use [text2wav.node.js](https://github.com/abbr/text2wav.node.js)
        to generate WAV files with a timeout
- [ ] KLOS color scheme: `#D91E75`, `#4B89BF`, `#8CBF3F`, `#F2D750`, and `#D95525`
- [ ] "Island Mode" with an embedded [standalone Python distribution](https://python-build-standalone.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
- [ ] Login interstitial to populate with demo data
- [ ] Integrated Twilio call board
- [x] Single app client lock (ie only ONE client per username/password)'
- [ ] Way to parse filename into rotator, start/end date
  - [ ] Submit form built into Tomato?
- [x] Silence detection REJECTs audio assets in backend (if there's more than 2 seconds?) (behind FEATURE flag)
- [x] Export all audio assets as zip
  - [x] Import as well (have to be careful with different `protocol.json:protocol_version`)
- [ ] Add configurable silence between ads. Crossfade, with fade points? Fancy!
- [ ] Client "Demo mode", requiring no backend with demo assets.
- [x] Button to play an asset from a specific rotator
  - [x] Backend done as `SINGLE_PLAY_ROTATORS`
- [ ] Cursor can be a fun thing?
- [ ] Clickable playbar that seeks?


## August 2024 UX review with [Miranda Kay](mailto:miranda.e.kay@gmail.com)

- [x] Button box flashes between assets
- [ ] ~~Switch connected icons with feather wifi on/off~~
- [x] Danger button in settings
- [x] Denser progress radials - decrease to 4rem
- [x] First asset of next stop doesn't show log tooltip if current stop startedPlaying
- [x] Assets queued for skipping should grey out
- [x] Seed, leaf, flower icon for simple, intermediate, advanced
- [x] Alternating grey/white rows in AssetPicker component
- [x] Fix regenerate/swap not working button when wait intervals are disabled
- [ ] Seems to be a startup delay. Do profiling to figure it out.

## 2024 Feedback

- [ ] A `NO_REPEAT_ASSETS_TIME` override
- [x] De-dupe multiple uploads better (ie tasks) for the purposes of client reloading
      via `RELOAD_PLAYLIST_AFTER_DATA_CHANGES` (batches cause many reloads)
  - [x] Strip out `django-pgtrigger` (overly complicated), and just override `ModelAdmin`'s `delete_model()`,
        `save_model()`, and `delete_queryset()` methods with hook. For quick actions where a model's `update()` method
        is called we'll need to hook `get_actions()`, redefining these action functions to call the hook. The hook
        can proably set a value on the request, that a middleware writes to. Bulk upload will need be marked dirty as
        well, after processing. Can use `pg_notify()` to notify websocket API.
  - [x] Completed via a more no-frill approach by debouncing playlist reloads if they came from DB changes in frontend.
- [x] Fades in controller get choppy after a certain amount of time, likely due to `time.monotonic()`
- [x] Always show scrollbars on macOS
- [x] Ability to bulk download assets on asset list view
- [ ] Tagging system for all DB models (perhaps using [django-taggit](https://github.com/jazzband/django-taggit))
- [ ] Rename 'audio assets' to 'assets'

## 2025 Things

- [ ] Simplify permission system, removing groups and just having superusers + regular users + flags on user model?
- [x] Fix `black` tool. (needs to be run as `black` then `isort` for double linebreak after imports)
- [x] Ability to completely remove asset deletion (soft delete only) via constance config
- [ ] Normalize using LUFs (ChatGPT) algorithm?
- [x] Proper permissions on asset alternates

## 2026 Stuff

- [ ] Bulk uploads of 50+ files breaks. Look into this.
- [ ] Allow already uploaded/archived assets to be converted into asset alternatives
- [ ] Form asset submission
- [ ] Client user disconnected for long periods of time, and required client to be restarted to connect.
      Check websocket. (Seems to do with using the database as a cahce for uploads, could use redis but
      make sure to stop using sqlite3 for huey as well, then. Probably want to keep DB for config, however.)

Commit message:

Switch to redis for cache/huey/API messaging
This fixes the upload error, since django-file-form uses the cache, and
the sheer number of DB connections for many-file uploads was breaking.

TODO.md, after:

TODO List

## Version 1

- [x] [Supress power save mode](https://www.electronjs.org/docs/latest/api/power-save-blocker)
- [x] Trim silence on uploaded assets
- [x] Reject files based on pre-processed file hash
- [x] CSV export to client log entries
- [x] Idiot mode, easy mode, advanced mode
- [ ] ~~Timeout on fetch?~~ (websockets makes this unneeded, except for downloading files)
- [x] Attempt to prevent duplicate assets from playing within a certain time period
- [x] Start/end time for assets in client are based on "is likely to play at" time
- [x] Empty rotators are warned on (based on feature flag)
- [x] Deal with non-playable assets (error state ones)
- [x] Compression and selecting output device using a bridge to
      [the web audio API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/AudioContext/createMediaElementSource).
- [x] Any custom django admin pages can [follow this guide](https://dev.to/daiquiri_team/creating-a-custom-page-in-django-admin-4pbd)
- [x] Flash **whole** screen after configurable time with some messaging ("play the promos, station management has been notified")
- [x] Button to get out of fullscreen (useful on Linux)

## Future Versions

Changes for 2024 based on real world usage in 2023 and feedback
- [x] Make rotators able to disabled (UI for assets / stopsets needs to show that too)
- [x] ~~Implement soft delete for assets~~ -- keep the file, but delete the DB entity
  - [x] Behind the scenes track deleted files.
- [x] Easier way to toggle, simple / standard / advanced view settings in client. Not in settings.
  - [ ] Change advanced mode copy to "admin" mode
  - [x] Build out "switch back to simple mode" timer feature a little better, ie ~~comma separated times?~~
- [x] Better datetime picker in admin
- [x] Skip track in stopset when we get to it
- [ ] ~~Mark a bad asset? Interesting. Not sure how it would work.~~ – too difficult
      to implement, too many opinions, person wishing to flag talks to manager-of-the-moment
- [x] Refresh playlist from backend. ~~Connected client status from backend? Communicate what's in the playlist?~~
  - [x] Minimally completed via `RELOAD_PLAYLIST_AFTER_DATA_CHANGES` setting
- [x] Backend client playlist editor
- [ ] ~~Status updates, ie news and traffic? Fullscreen thing?~~ / ~~Custom UI labels unused labels that play every N times (ie for telling the DJ to do something)~~ -- Probably not
- [x] Round-robin (or "cycle evenly") rotator scheduling, ignoring weight as an option for a rotator
- [x] Check / validate randomization algorithm
  - [x] Validated! Review of algorithm provided by [Andy](https://github.com/sagittandy/)
- [x] Mini-player column in asset list view
- [x] Asset alternates (single asset has 4-5 underlying audio files that are cycled through)
  - [x] Backend done
- [x] A large clock in the UI
- [x] Make weights for previous 24 hours... AND reflect that in front-end (day-of
      pill) and back-end (sortable)... will require change to `END_DATE_PRIORITY_WEIGHT_MULTIPLIER`
    - [x] Added day-of-event pill
- [x] Rudimentary stopset editor, in the form of "skip/queue", regenerate asset, and swap asset
  - [ ] Ability to "audition" assets on a second audio output?
- [x] ~~Stop playing at end of current asset. (Stop playing in 3s with fadeout as well?)~~ (Covered by skip)
- [x] A way to send a custom text notification to all connected clients from backend UI
- [x] Audio visualization with WaveSurfer


## Other things

- [ ] Ability to do speech synthesis / pull asset from API? / weather
  - [ ] Best cross-platform way to do this might be to use [text2wav.node.js](https://github.com/abbr/text2wav.node.js)
        to generate WAV files with a timeout
- [ ] KLOS color scheme: `#D91E75`, `#4B89BF`, `#8CBF3F`, `#F2D750`, and `#D95525`
- [ ] "Island Mode" with an embedded [standalone Python distribution](https://python-build-standalone.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
- [ ] Login interstitial to populate with demo data
- [ ] Integrated Twilio call board
- [x] Single app client lock (ie only ONE client per username/password)'
- [ ] Way to parse filename into rotator, start/end date
  - [ ] Submit form built into Tomato?
- [x] Silence detection REJECTs audio assets in backend (if there's more than 2 seconds?) (behind FEATURE flag)
- [x] Export all audio assets as zip
  - [x] Import as well (have to be careful with different `protocol.json:protocol_version`)
- [ ] Add configurable silence between ads. Crossfade, with fade points? Fancy!
- [ ] Client "Demo mode", requiring no backend with demo assets.
- [x] Button to play an asset from a specific rotator
  - [x] Backend done as `SINGLE_PLAY_ROTATORS`
- [ ] Cursor can be a fun thing?
- [ ] Clickable playbar that seeks?


## August 2024 UX review with [Miranda Kay](mailto:miranda.e.kay@gmail.com)

- [x] Button box flashes between assets
- [ ] ~~Switch connected icons with feather wifi on/off~~
- [x] Danger button in settings
- [x] Denser progress radials - decrease to 4rem
- [x] First asset of next stop doesn't show log tooltip if current stop startedPlaying
- [x] Assets queued for skipping should grey out
- [x] Seed, leaf, flower icon for simple, intermediate, advanced
- [x] Alternating grey/white rows in AssetPicker component
- [x] Fix regenerate/swap not working button when wait intervals are disabled
- [ ] Seems to be a startup delay. Do profiling to figure it out.

## 2024 Feedback

- [ ] A `NO_REPEAT_ASSETS_TIME` override
- [x] De-dupe multiple uploads better (ie tasks) for the purposes of client reloading
      via `RELOAD_PLAYLIST_AFTER_DATA_CHANGES` (batches cause many reloads)
  - [x] Strip out `django-pgtrigger` (overly complicated), and just override `ModelAdmin`'s `delete_model()`,
        `save_model()`, and `delete_queryset()` methods with hook. For quick actions where a model's `update()` method
        is called we'll need to hook `get_actions()`, redefining these action functions to call the hook. The hook
        can proably set a value on the request, that a middleware writes to. Bulk upload will need be marked dirty as
        well, after processing. Can use `pg_notify()` to notify websocket API.
  - [x] Completed via a more no-frill approach by debouncing playlist reloads if they came from DB changes in frontend.
- [x] Fades in controller get choppy after a certain amount of time, likely due to `time.monotonic()`
- [x] Always show scrollbars on macOS
- [x] Ability to bulk download assets on asset list view
- [ ] Tagging system for all DB models (perhaps using [django-taggit](https://github.com/jazzband/django-taggit))
- [ ] Rename 'audio assets' to 'assets'

## 2025 Things

- [ ] Simplify permission system, removing groups and just having superusers + regular users + flags on user model?
- [x] Fix `black` tool. (needs to be run as `black` then `isort` for double linebreak after imports)
- [x] Ability to completely remove asset deletion (soft delete only) via constance config
- [ ] Normalize using LUFs (ChatGPT) algorithm?
- [x] Proper permissions on asset alternates

## 2026 Stuff

- [x] Bulk uploads of 50+ files breaks. Look into this. (Seems to do with using the database as a cache for uploads,
      could use redis but make sure to stop using sqlite3 for huey as well, then. Probably want to keep DB for config,
      however. May as well switch from `pg_notify` in that case as well.)
- [ ] Allow already uploaded/archived assets to be converted into asset alternatives
- [ ] Form asset submission
- [ ] Client user disconnected for long periods of time, and required client to be restarted to connect.
      Check websocket.
